Elevate Payment Partnerships (EPP)
Disputes Engineering — Complete Project Story
Braintree Disputes · Arbiter Platform · 2023–2024
Why the project was done
The initiative was anchored in two critical business imperatives. First, Wells Fargo — Braintree's primary acquiring bank at the time — had begun limiting the types of merchants it would support, specifically declining to continue servicing crypto, NFT, and high-risk merchant categories. This put Braintree in a vulnerable position where a third party was dictating which merchants it could serve. Second, competitors like Adyen and Stripe were already operating on BIN Sponsorship and self-processing models, giving them vastly superior control, speed-to-market, and operational efficiency.
The EPP initiative migrated merchants in carefully sequenced phases from the Wells Fargo pipeline onto a new stack built around Fiserv as the processor and Goldman Sachs (later Pathward for high-risk) as the acquiring bank. 


What was Disputes team part 
The Disputes team — specifically the Arbiter platform — was tasked with building a completely new end-to-end integration with Fiserv's dispute management system, covering chargeback ingestion, merchant notification, financial events, representment submission, reporting, and monitoring.
With this new pipeline, BT Disputes will be receiving information about disputes directly from Fiserv. We will also be submitting dispute representments directly to Fiserv. This requires us to build a new end-to-end processor integration with Fiserv.
This document captures the complete story of that work: the why, the what, the how, the blockers encountered, the architectural decisions made, the data analysis performed, and the operational playbooks created along the way.
2. Background and Strategic Context
2.1 Braintree's Processing Model Before EPP
Prior to EPP, Braintree processed payments primarily through an ISO (Independent Sales Organization) model, which industry analysts considered a legacy approach by 2022-2023 standards. Under this model, Braintree was fully dependent on third-party acquiring banks and processors for the entire payment lifecycle. The primary bank was Wells Fargo (WFMS — Wells Fargo Merchant Services), and disputes flowed through the Wells CashMan/DFM (Data File Manager) system.
This dependency created significant constraints. Any product improvement, new merchant capability, or operational change required alignment with and execution by the third-party bank. Latency in dispute file delivery, limited visibility into dispute status, and inability to onboard certain merchant categories were all symptoms of this dependency. When Wells Fargo decided it would no longer support crypto and NFT merchants, it exposed the existential risk of this model: a third party could effectively determine Braintree's addressable market.
2.2 Competitive Landscape
The strategic urgency behind EPP becomes clear when viewed against the competitive backdrop. Adyen and Stripe — Braintree's primary competitors in the enterprise payments space — had already moved to a mix of BIN Sponsorships and self-processing models. These companies owned their technical stack end-to-end:
•	They could go to market in new countries without third-party approval or delays.
•	Monitoring, support, and remediation of operational incidents could be done proactively.
•	They could onboard any merchant category they chose to accept.
•	Their dispute management, reporting, and reconciliation systems were internally controlled.
Braintree continuing on the ISO model meant an accelerating capability gap versus these competitors. EPP was the answer to closing that gap.
2.3 The Vision
The long-term vision of EPP was to create a redundant, scalable, and competitive processing and post-processing platform for Braintree, PayPal, and Venmo merchants. The ultimate north star — beyond the immediate phases — was to connect directly with card schemes (Visa, Mastercard) for both incoming and outgoing dispute events, eliminating the intermediate processor layer entirely for dispute management.

**This become the permanent solution and this is what EPP was about overall*
The intermediate milestone was the Fiserv integration: Braintree would now receive dispute data directly from Fiserv via a Snowflake-based data pipeline (rather than waiting for file drops from Wells), and submit representments directly to Fiserv via their eResponse SFTP mechanism.
 3. Problem Statement
The disputes team documented two core problems that EPP was solving from a disputes management perspective:
3.1 Third-Party Dependencies
Braintree, PayPal, and Venmo were highly dependent on third-party acquiring and processing relationships. Items such as latency, product improvements, and post-processing capabilities — including reporting, disputes, and money movement — were contingent on the health and capabilities of those partners. Partners could also limit the types of merchants that Braintree could onboard (e.g., real money gaming, crypto, and other high-risk verticals), directly constraining market share and scope. The Wells Fargo situation with crypto/NFT merchants was the most visible manifestation of this risk.
3.2 Competitive Disadvantage
Braintree's ISO model was considered a legacy model by industry standards. Competitors like Adyen and Stripe completely owned their technical stack. They did not rely on — and were not blocked by — third-party processors or banks. This gave them the ability to proactively monitor, support, and remediate operational incidents, and to quickly go to market in new countries and with new product features — advantages Braintree simply could not replicate under the existing model.
3.3 Dispute-Specific Problems Being Solved
From a Braintree Disputes perspective, the specific problems EPP aimed to solve included:
•	Dependency on Wells Fargo's DFM file (delivered daily via SFTP, subject to Wells' SLAs)
•	No ability to independently control reply-by date calculations or SLA enforcement
•	Limited transparency into dispute lifecycle updates — Fiserv's Snowflake model offered real-time access vs. Wells' batch file model
•	Inability to onboard certain high-risk merchant categories, costing Braintree addressable market (e.g., Coinbase, real money gaming)
•	Financial events (debits/credits to merchants) were dependent on third-party funding pipelines with limited reconciliation visibility
•	Reporting was fragmented — merchants used multiple SFTP-based custom reports that had known reconciliation issues
 4. The EPP Program — Phase Overview and Timeline
EPP was structured into distinct phases, each targeting a different merchant segment and connection path. Dispute was phase 4, we are not interested inr est of the pashes
Phase	Connection Path	Merchant Impact	Internal Start	Internal End	External Committed
Phase 4: Remaining BT LE	BT → Fiserv → Goldman Sachs	BT: ~1K Large Enterprise Merchants	Sep 30, 2023	Jun 30, 2024	Oct 31, 2024

4.1 The Post-Pivot (March 31, 2023)
*** I think this is not that important information , sicne this was done on upper levels, Dipsute was not involve at this time***
A critical inflection point was the EPP Pivot of March 31, 2023. Originally, Phase 1B and Phase 2 were planned to go through IPP (PayPal's Instrument Processing Platform) → Fiserv → Pathward. Post-pivot, Braintree moved to integrate directly with Fiserv, cutting out IPP as an intermediary. This had significant implications for the disputes team: instead of receiving dispute data indirectly through IPP's existing file-based mechanism, Braintree would now query Fiserv's Snowflake instance directly. The Phase 1B/2 disputes confluence document was copied from the Phase 4 doc on 5/24/2023 to reflect this new reality.
4.2 Dual Pipeline Reality (Transition Period)
A particularly complex aspect of the transition period was that merchants would have disputes on BOTH the Wells pipeline and the new Fiserv/Pathward pipeline simultaneously. Braintree had to continue processing existing Wells disputes with no interruption while also handling new Fiserv disputes for migrated merchants. This dual-pipeline operation required careful strategy engine design to avoid collisions, duplicate dispute creation, and incorrect financial events.
 5. Phase 1 — Crypto/NFT Merchants (Wells → IPP/Worldpay)
5.1 Context and Merchants
Phase 1 was specifically scoped to migrate three NFT/Crypto merchants off of Wells Fargo Merchant Services (WFMS) onto Worldpay via IPP by end of March 2023. These merchants were:
Merchant Account Token	Merchant Public ID	Dispute Count (2022)
coinbaseinc_instant	k7htn4dptfgm95ct	101,937
PaniniAmerica_instant	5ytry64hrnrsgwnn	10,634
StockX_NFT	w6vcnykz4pvzrskv	57

Coinbase was by far the largest — with nearly 102,000 disputes in 2022 alone — making it the most operationally complex merchant to migrate. The high dispute volume was driven by the nature of crypto transactions: while cryptocurrency-to-cryptocurrency transfers are irreversible, credit card purchases of cryptocurrency remain fully subject to chargebacks. This creates an inherent asymmetry where the merchant (Coinbase) could disburse crypto that cannot be recovered, yet still face a chargeback on the card side.
6.2 Product Requirements (MVP)
The MVP for Phases 1B/2 was explicitly defined as 'the features and capabilities that Braintree supports today PLUS the top-priority merchant needs that the new Fiserv interface allows.' The following requirements were marked as must-have for MVP:
#	Requirement	User Story	MVP?
1	Data Ingestion	Arbiter needs to ingest dispute data defined by data contract with Fiserv, streamed from Snowflake instance.	YES
2	Reply By Dates	Merchants need enough time to respond. Arbiter to re-assess reply-by dates based on defined SLA with Fiserv.	YES
3	Financial Events	Merchants need full transparency into financial events. Arbiter-Funding handshake to charge merchants accurately.	YES
4	Dispute Updates	Merchants need notification of dispute updates including amount, reason code, and status changes.	YES
5	Terminal Status	Merchants need to see the terminal (final) status for each dispute.	YES
6	Reporting Data Contract	Reporting needs to know when dispute data is available to generate DFR and DDR reports.	YES
7	Internal Data Dashboards	Arbiter stakeholders need to monitor dispute trends. Datadog dashboards with KPIs.	NO
8	Merchant Data Dashboard	Merchants need visibility into key metrics. Dashboard in Control Panel.	NO
9	Arbitration Case Creation	Merchants should be able to see arbitration cases filed by issuing banks.	NO
10	Dispute History	Merchants need full dispute history per case number. (To be revisited.)	NO

6.3 Target Audience
Phase 1B targeted Coinbase specifically — the highest-volume high-risk merchant and the designated canary for the new integration. Phase 2 targeted approximately 450 identified high-risk BT merchants that had to be moved off Wells, plus ~97,000 PayPal merchants in the same high-risk category.
6.4 Incremental Data Attributes Added to Arbiter
A critical piece of work for Phase 1B/2 was defining the new data attributes that would need to be persisted in Arbiter from the Fiserv integration. These were not present in the Wells integration and required both model changes and Snowflake query expansion. The data was organized into two groups:
6.4.1 Chargeback Group — New Fields
Field ID	Field Name	Description	Key Questions
cb_status	Chargeback Status	Status of Chargeback (3 values: Open, Closed, Reversed)	—
cb_disputeCurrency	Dispute Currency Code	Currency code used for the transaction.	—
cb_merchantFundingCurrency	Merchant Funding Currency	Currency in which original presentment was funded.	—
cb_Disposition	Chargeback Disposition	Describing final settlement of a chargeback.	—
cb_winLoss	Chargeback Win/Loss	Status of dispute: won, lost, or pending.	—
cb_trackingNumber	Tracking Number	Tracking number of the disputed transaction.	In which cases is this value passed?
cb_statusDate	Status Date	Date for expected response to the client.	Is this the network due date for representment?
cb_recurring	Recurring Type	Recurrence type for the transaction.	—
cb_workType	Chargeback Work Type	Various stages of chargeback resolution.	What are Oploss and Incoming Collections types? What to do with Outgoing cases?
cb_dispositionDate	Disposition Date	Date of disposition.	—
cb_category	Category	Categorization of chargeback.	—
cb_partialAmountFlag	Partial Amount Flag	Flag for partial chargebacks.	Would this be sent in the original dispute record?
cb_relevanceKey	Relevance Code	Denotes whether chargeback is merchant-visible.	What are the expected values?
cb_responseReceived	CB Response Received	Chargeback response received indicator.	When would this notice be received?
cb_dueDate	CB Due Date	Deadline to respond to dispute. Absent = no response required.	—

6.4.2 Retrieval Group — New Fields
Field ID	Field Name	Description	Key Questions
r_fulfilmentDate	Fulfilment Date	Date retrieval was fulfilled. Empty if not yet fulfilled.	Does this mean the retrieval is resolved and won't progress to chargeback?
r_trackingNumber	Tracking Number	Tracking number of disputed transaction.	In which cases is this passed?
r_status	Retrieval Status	Status of retrieval.	When would we receive a Pending status record?
r_dueDate	Due Date	Deadline to respond to satisfy a retrieval.	Is this the network due date?
r_statusDate	Status Date	Date for expected response to client.	What is the difference between r_statusDate and r_dueDate?
r_retrievalRequestType	Retrieval Request Type	Request type for the retrieval.	—

6.5 E2E Flow and Testing Framework
The team documented a comprehensive end-to-end flow for Phase 1B/2, with 10 numbered steps covering the complete dispute lifecycle:
1.	Cardholder initiates dispute — External / Issuer dependency
2.	Fiserv ingests dispute and provides data in Snowflake. Fiserv cutoff 7PM EST; data ready by 9AM EST the following day. Snowflake 'Trigger' table updated to signal readiness.
3.	BT Disputes pulls dispute data from Snowflake. Phase 1B: Chargebacks only. Phase 2: Retrievals, Pre-Arbs, Chargebacks. Phase TBD: Arbitrations.
4.	BT Disputes implements controls to ensure data integrity of records pulled from Snowflake.
5.	Note: Merchants continue to have disputes on both Wells AND Pathward during transition. BT must process existing Wells disputes with no interruption alongside Pathward disputes.
6.	Strategies create new disputes and update existing disputes in Arbiter.
7.	Merchants notified of new cases and updates via emails and webhooks (Sendgrid).
8.	BT Funding notified to initiate a debit or credit based on the dispute record. Acknowledgement received from Funding.
9.	Accurate dispute data provided for BT Reporting. Includes Dispute Report (DLR) and Dispute Financial Impact Report (DFIR). Funding handshake signals that dispute data is ready for processing.
10.	When merchant is ready to respond: evidence curation, validation, and submission to Fiserv. Auto-acceptance for RDR flag disputes. Auto-contestation if refund detected and case value > $30.
11.	BT monitors submissions to Fiserv via eResponse and receives acknowledgement once representment is processed.
A formal testing matrix was also defined, covering all components across: Ingestion (Snowflake Trigger Table, Chargebacks Table, Task), Creation (Strategies for Open/Reopen/Win/Lose/PRE), Financial Events (Debit/Credit/Fee), Representment (CP/SDK/GraphQL/Eresponse), and Reporting (CP reports, DFR, DDR, SFTP, Custom).
 8. Technical Architecture — EPP Phase 4 RFC
The EPP Phase 4 RFC (Request for represented the definitive technical blueprint for the Fiserv disputes integration. It covered five major subsystems: Ingest, Handling, Representment, Reporting, and the Funding Handshake. The RFC also proposed two architectural improvements — splitting ingest from handling and enabling preemptive transaction lookup — that would benefit the integration long-term.
Jira Epic: DTBTCD-1169. Related components: Arbiter, Gateway, Funding, Reporting, Airflow, Datalake.
8.1 Ingest Architecture
8.1.1 Data Source Decision
A key early decision was the data source for Fiserv dispute records. Two options were evaluated: (1) Connect directly to and query Fiserv's Snowflake instance, or (2) receive a CLX (ClientLine) file likely via SFTP. The decision was to use Snowflake, with the critical architectural note that Arbiter would NOT connect directly to Snowflake. Instead, a Snowflake task would query the Fiserv data and copy the results to an S3 bucket, which Arbiter would then read from. (The original plan for direct Snowflake connectivity was marked as CANCELLED in the engineering hub — EM was originally going to create application credentials.)
8.1.2 Snowflake to S3 Pipeline
The Snowflake pipeline worked as follows: On date D, a Snowflake task queries for all chargeback records with an upd_dt (status_date) of D-1, copies results to S3 bucket bt-production-arbiter-processor-files/fiserv/chargeback/<status_date>/, and Arbiter's FileProcessor then reads and processes that file. The Snowflake task and procedure were defined in the snowflake-terraform repo.
Snowflake environments:
Environment	Snowflake Share	Purpose
Production (Goldman/Pathward)	FISERV_FISERVGBSPROD_PPDEBIT_SHARE.PPFISERV	Production data for Phase 4 and Phase 1B/2
Snowflake UI	braintree.snowflakecomputing.com/console	Direct query access; credentials from EM David Miller

8.1.3 Ingest Runner Design
The Fiserv::ProcessorRecordIngestRunner was designed to be kicked off by a cron job daily. It orchestrates: calling Fiserv::Client to retrieve records → iterating through records → building Fiserv::ProcessorRecord objects → persisting to the fiserv_processor_record table in Arbiter's DB → either triggering Gateway TransactionLookupEvent or queueing HandleProcessorRecordJob.
Model validations were required in accordance with expected data shape. Any record with missing or unexpected data would raise a ProcessorRecordException (PRE). Separate models and DB tables were needed for retrieval records vs. chargeback records since they are separate entities in Fiserv's Snowflake.
8.2 Splitting Ingest and Handling
A key architectural improvement proposed in the RFC was to cleanly separate processor record ingest from handling. Prior to this work, ingest and handling occurred inline in a single runner. The new design:
12.	Ingest Runner retrieves records, creates/persists ProcessorRecord objects
13.	For each record: either triggers Gateway transaction lookup OR queues HandleProcessorRecordJob
14.	Gateway transaction lookup response processed via ArbiterDisputeMessageService → queues HandleProcessorRecordJob
15.	HandleProcessorRecordJob passes record to HandleProcessorRecordService for full handling
This separation moved ingest, transaction lookup, and handling into separate workers, improving performance and operational clarity. The improvement would benefit all processor integrations, not just Fiserv.
8.3 Preemptive Transaction Lookup
The RFC also proposed cutting over to preemptive Gateway transaction lookup for Fiserv disputes. Under the old (non-preemptive) model:
•	Open processor record arrives → Arbiter creates a Dispute in pending state (internal only, not visible to merchants)
•	Arbiter kicks off Gateway transaction lookup
•	Gateway returns transaction info → pending Dispute transitions to open state and becomes visible
Under preemptive transaction lookup:
•	Ingest kicks off Gateway transaction lookup BEFORE handling the open processor record
•	When Gateway returns transaction info → Arbiter creates Dispute directly in open state
•	Dispute is immediately visible to merchants with all necessary information
•	No confusing 'pending' state ever exists
Two known gaps in the existing preemptive transaction lookup implementation needed to be resolved before cutover:
16.	Auto-acceptance evaluation logic was not in place for preemptive flow. Needed to be added in DisputeBuilder — feasible because preemptive disputes are created in open state and can immediately transition to auto-accepted.
17.	Open processor records for escalated cases (open chargeback-with-retrieval or open pre-arbitration) don't undergo Gateway transaction lookup (info already retrieved). This meant open notifications weren't being created for these Disputes. Root cause: notification creation was skipped in DisputeBuilder for preemptive lookup Disputes because certain attributes aren't available until transaction lookup completes. Solution: persist dispute attributes from Gateway response on the TransactionLookupEvent so they can be accessed in DisputeBuilder without needing a live lookup.
8.4 Handling — Strategy Engine
The strategy engine was the heart of Arbiter's dispute processing. For the Fiserv integration, four handling flows were defined:
Flow	Trigger	Key Actions
Open record — new case	Open retrieval OR open chargeback with no prior retrieval	Transaction lookup → Create Dispute (open) → Evaluate auto-acceptance → Create notifications → Send financial events to Funding
Open record — escalated dispute	Open chargeback-with-retrieval OR pre-arbitration	No transaction lookup needed → Same as above (lookup already done for prior lifecycle stage)
Win or loss record	Terminal status record for existing dispute	No lookup → Transition dispute to won/lost → Create won/lost webhook → Send financial events to Funding
Update record	Non-terminal update for existing dispute	No lookup → Update dispute details (reason, amount, etc.) — no terminal state change

Required strategy classes: Fiserv::CreateRetrievalStrategy, Fiserv::CreateChargebackStrategy, Fiserv::WinDisputeStrategy, Fiserv::LoseDisputeStrategy, Fiserv::UpdateDisputeStrategy, and a no-op strategy for unactionable records. PREs would be raised for any record where no strategy or multiple strategies matched.
A shadow dispute mechanism was also built: before go-live, the team could run Fiserv shadow strategies against real Fiserv records to validate behavior without creating live disputes for merchants. This allowed identification of strategy gaps, PRE patterns, and common lifecycle sequences before full cutover.
8.4.1 Visa RDR (Rapid Dispute Resolution)
An important nuance in the handling logic was Visa RDR. RDR disputes are automatically resolved by Visa before a chargeback is formally filed. Under the Wells integration, the team had implemented a blanket allowlist approach: all Visa chargebacks for merchants on the RDR allowlist had fees waived. The Fiserv integration enabled a more granular approach: the pre_dispute_program field on ArbiterDisputeMessages could be used to waive fees on a dispute-by-dispute basis, rather than a blanket per-merchant waiver. This logic would live in both Funding and Pricing teams.
8.5 Representment Architecture
When merchants submit evidence for a dispute (or when auto-submission is triggered), Arbiter needed to submit that evidence to Fiserv. The design leveraged the existing Wells/FirstData representment architecture:
•	Fiserv::EvidenceSubmissionService created to handle evidence compilation and submission via SFTP to Fiserv's eResponse mailbox. Fiserv confirmed BT would use existing mailbox NAGW-XBMDK006 with transmission job RCDMBPSS. A new eResponse Group ID would be assigned.
•	Fiserv::DisputeAcceptanceService for cases where merchants choose to accept a dispute rather than fight it. Acceptance method: Dispute::AcceptanceMethod::FIRST_DATA_VIA_FDR.
•	DisputesReadyToExpireQuery and ExpiredRunner: if a merchant hasn't responded by the reply-by date, the dispute is transitioned to expired. Auto-submit logic for qualifying Fiserv disputes (refunded, amount > $30) was added to ExpiredRunner — mirroring existing Wells behavior.
•	DisputesReadyToLoseQuery and LostRunner: if a dispute hasn't reached terminal state after a specified period, it's transitioned to lost. Note: Fiserv confirmed all disputes eventually receive terminal status records via Snowflake, so this was primarily a safety net.
•	Evidence recommendations CSV was audited and updated for Fiserv reason codes via a mapping exercise.
8.6 Funding Handshake
A key requirement for the integration — and for enabling the reporting team to generate accurate daily reports — was implementing a 'Funding Handshake': a signal that ingest and handling for the day was complete and that financial events had been reconciled.
The design was a Datalake view (implemented via an Airflow DAG) that told Reporting four things:
18.	Is the day's processing file completed?
19.	Do the number of financial events in Arbiter and Funding match?
20.	Do the amounts of financial events in Arbiter and Funding match?
21.	Are there any unresolved PREs for the day's records?
This was modeled after a similar approach used by the Pricing team. The Datalake was chosen over EDL/BigQuery because migration to EDL would be a long process and the Pricing team was only pushing for BigQuery to support BFIT consumers. The team could proceed with Datalake for the foreseeable future.
8.7 Monitoring Strategy
The team designed a comprehensive monitoring approach using Datadog (with version-controlled dashboards), the Disputes Panel, and Splunk. Key desired metrics:
•	How long does ingest take? Are records available at the expected time?
•	How long does Gateway transaction lookup take?
•	How long does Funding acknowledgement of financial events take?
•	How long does representment take? How long does Fiserv's ACK of representments take?
•	Errors across entire flow: ingest runner failures, HandleProcessorRecordJob failures, PRE rates, EvidenceSubmissionJob/DisputeAcceptanceJob failures
Specific Jira tickets were created to: add Fiserv as a source to the Disputes Panel, fix PRE access in the Disputes Panel, and build a Datadog dashboard covering all EPP KPIs.
8.8 Sprint Sequencing
The RFC included a detailed sprint sequencing plan:
Workstream	Component	Sprints
WS1	Snowflake Integration (SPIKE: connect to Fiserv Snowflake, POC integration test)	1
WS2	Transaction Details, TransactionBuilder, TransactionFinder	1
WS2	ProcessorRecord model(s), ProcessorRecordBuilder(s) — MVP: Chargebacks only	1
WS1	Fiserv::Client	1
WS3	ProcessorRecordIngestRunner + cron job + rake task	1
WS1	Preemptive Txn Lookup: persist dispute attributes on TransactionLookupEvent, DisputeBuilder updates	1
WS?	Audit/eliminate redundant Gateway::DisputeProducer calls + produce_to_kafka calls	1
WS3	Strategy Engine: CreateChargeback, WinDispute, LoseDispute, UpdateDispute + Shadow strategies	2
WS3	Representment: EvidenceSubmissionService, DisputeAcceptanceService, ExpiredRunner logic	1
—	Buffer sprints	2
—	TOTAL	~12

 9. Data Architecture — Snowflake Integration and Field Mapping
9.1 The DFM (Data File Manager) and Snowflake
Fiserv's dispute data was originally delivered to partners via a DFM (Data File Manager) file — a CSV/structured file containing chargeback records. For the EPP integration, Fiserv exposed this data via a Snowflake share instead, allowing for more timely access and direct querying. The table was CHARGEBACK_PPFISERV_V1 (later CHARGEBACK_PPDEBIT_V1 for the Pathward/Goldman scope).
9.2 DFM Data Analysis — Dispute Lifecycle Research
Before building the integration, the team did significant data analysis on historical Coinbase dispute records from 2022 (via the Wells CashMan database) to understand the range of dispute lifecycle patterns they would need to handle. In 2022 alone, 21 different dispute lifecycle sequences were observed for Coinbase.
Three major patterns were documented and questions sent to Fiserv (via Tyler Baldwin, FiServ Research and Business Analysis Professional):
22.	82,689 cases had the sequence: [Credit to merchant / Dispute Amount debit] → Open a dispute. Question: Should these cases expect a close event at some point? (Needed to verify records hadn't had close events outside the query time boundary.)
23.	17,691 cases had the sequence: [Credit to merchant / Dispute Amount debit, STATUS MOVED TO CLOSED] → Open a dispute, Update dispute to merchant liable (lost). Tyler confirmed: this is the last update if BT doesn't provide evidence/representment. If BT provides evidence after due date, another status update would be provided.
24.	21 cases had the sequence: [STATUS MOVED TO CLOSED] with no prior OPEN chargeback notice. Question: should there have been an open update first?
9.3 Daily Volume Analysis
To plan infrastructure capacity, the team ran queries against Coinbase's daily dispute update volumes. This analysis was critical for sizing the Snowflake task, S3 storage, and Arbiter processing capacity.
9.4 Field Mapping: CHARGEBACK_PPFISERV_V1 → Arbiter Protocol
A detailed field mapping exercise was performed to map Fiserv's raw Snowflake column names to Arbiter's internal dispute model (the Protocol). Below is the complete mapping for chargebacks:
Fiserv Field (CHARGEBACK_PPFISERV_V1)	Arbiter Protocol Field	Status / Notes
Determined if Adjustment Amount credit received	amount_won	DONE
Chargeback Amount (orig_dsput_amt)	amount_disputed	DONE
IDS Case Number (alt_dsput_id)	case_number	DONE
Due Date (dspn_resp_due_dt)	effective_date	DONE
Dispute::EvidenceSubmissionMethod::FIRST_DATA_VIA_FDR	evidence_submission_method	DONE
Adjustment Amount present?	financial_movement?	TODO - See notes
Adjustment Amount (debit/credit sign)	financial_movement_amount	TODO - Few different currency options
chargeback_currency_code	financial_movement_currency	TODO — confirmed should use chargeback_currency_code (CB may be in different currency than original txn)
Adjustment Date	financial_movement_date	TODO — Adjustment Date? Or rely on Funding?
Invoice Number (invoice_no) .lower	gateway_transaction_public_id	DONE
Dispute Type = Chargeback	kind	DONE
<gw-txn-lookup>	merchant_account_unique_id	DONE
<gw-txn-lookup>	merchant_public_id	DONE
Location ID (siteid)	processor_merchant_id	DONE
Due Date (dspn_resp_due_dt)	processor_reply_by_date	DONE — default shaves 3 days; confirmed OK by Fiserv
ARN (acqr_ref_no)	processor_transaction_identifier	DONE
Dispute Reason Code (dsput_rsn_cd)	reason_code	DONE
Dispute Reason (m4.fild_valu_tx)	reason_description	DONE
Received Date (dsput_rcvd_dt)	received_date	DONE
ARN (acqr_ref_no)	reference_number	DONE
Processed Currency Description	settlement_currency_iso_code	DONE
Hardcoded: 'fiserv'	source	DONE

9.4.1 Open Mapping Questions and Resolutions
Priority	Component	Description	Status	Resolution / Notes
High	Model/Product	financial_movement_currency — need to figure out currency. Fields: chargeback_currency_code, processed_currency_code.	RESOLVED	Use chargeback_currency_code as CB may be in different currency than original txn.
High	Model/Product	merchant_reply_by_date — default shaves 3 days from processor_reply_by_date. Is this OK?	RESOLVED	Yes, confirmed by Fiserv.
High	Ingest/Engineering	Delimiter: using ';' for CSV because ',' caused parsing issues with escaping.	DONE	Switched to semicolon delimiter.
Medium	Model/Product	show_disbursement_date? — hardcoded to true. Will these disputes be included in DFIR?	RESOLVED	Yes, should be true; disputes appear in DFIR.
Medium	Model/Product	What is request_date? Description only says 'Request date'.	TODO	Would need Tyler to confirm. Do we need it for anything?
Medium	Ingest/Engineering	Need ChargebackBuilder. Need dbdo for schema changes.	IN PROGRESS	—
Medium	Ingest/Engineering	Refactor Stored Procedure — manual work required across all queries for testing.	TODO	—
Medium	Model/Product	What is expiration_date? Values appear to be MMDD format.	TODO	Not in specs; would need Fiserv engagement. Is it needed?
Medium	Model/Product	How do partial credits work?	TODO	Per Slack thread: Wells provided credit but case shouldn't have closed. Via Snowflake, can we identify partial credit ≠ terminal status?

9.5 DFM SQL Query (Fiserv's Internal View)
The team also obtained and documented the actual SQL query Fiserv uses internally to build the DFM file from their braintree.chargeback_bt_v1 source table. This was valuable for understanding the full data universe available, even if not all fields were consumed by Arbiter. Key fields in the query included: siteid (Location ID), store_nr, mccd (SIC Code), extr_id (External MID), adj_dt (Funded Date), lctn_dba_nm (Location DBA Name), dspn_curr_cd (Chargeback Currency Code), orig_dsput_amt (Chargeback Amount), dsput_rsn_cd (Dispute Reason Code), alt_dsput_id (IDS Case Number), dspn_resp_due_dt (Due Date), acqr_ref_no (ARN), chargeback_cycle, invoice_no, adj_amt (Adjustment Amount), and pre_dsput_flag (Pre-Dispute Flag), among 50+ total fields. The query joined against a metadata_v1 table to decode enumerated values (e.g., cb_status, cb_Reason, cb_authNetwork).
 
10.2 MVP Sequencing and Status (as of October 2023)
Seq	Component	Sprint Estimate	Status
1	Preemptive Transaction Lookup	1	BLOCKED — Note: may be able to proceed without this.
2	Snowflake Integration	1	DONE
3	Processor Record Modeling	2	DONE
3	Ingest Runner	2	DONE
4	Strategy Engine + Merchant Cutover	3	IN PROGRESS
3	Representment	3	DONE
—	TOTAL	13 sprints	—

The Preemptive Transaction Lookup was marked BLOCKED with a note that the team might be able to proceed without it. The Strategy Engine + Merchant Cutover work was the active workstream as of the last update to the engineering hub (October 2, 2023).
10.3 Implementation Epic
The implementation was tracked under Jira Epic DTBTCD-1259. The original Phase 4 RFC was under Jira Epic DTBTCD-1169.
10.4 Go-Live Merchant Configuration
The first merchant to go live on the Fiserv integration was Coinbase, with the following configuration:
Parameter	Value
Merchant	Coinbase
merchant_public_id	k7htn4dptfgm95ct
merchant_account_token	coinbaseinc_instant
merchant_account_unique_id	gfnd54j
Current MID (Wells)	445488342996
location_dba_name	COINBASE, INC.

10.5 Refinement Notes — Code Changes and Test Cases
During development, the team maintained detailed refinement notes documenting specific code changes and testing approaches:
10.5.1 Code Changes Made
•	Dropped adjustment_amount_sign and submitted_transaction_amount_sign columns — did not exist in Snowflake schema.
•	Removed pos_entry_mode from Snowflake query — not being used by Arbiter.
•	(Reverted) Converting amounts to integer cents — strikethrough in notes, indicating this was deprioritized.
10.5.2 Happy-Path Test Case
The defined happy-path test case used Snowflake record with:
•	case_number: 231533656601
•	status_date (record last updated): 6/4/23
•	dispute_type: Chargeback
•	chargeback_status: Open
•	request_type: F
•	adjustment_amount: Negative
•	adjustment_date: 6/5/23
10.5.3 PR-Level Engineering Discussions
A number of architectural questions were opened in code review that carried forward as deferred work items:
•	Consider removing strategy-name arrays and using namespace/directory structure instead (PR #3125).
•	Avoid stubbing out subject methods in tests (PR #3125).
•	Consider adding custom RSpec matcher like column_a.is_mapped_to(:column_b) (PR #3125).
•	Revisit usage of subject vs let vs before blocks in Fiserv::Chargeback spec (PR #3125).
•	Memoize methods on DisputeFinder; revisit DisputeFinder constraints in general (PR #3134).
•	Potential unhappy paths: correcting a Won dispute to Lost, or Lost to Won — no strategy existed for these (PR #3134).
•	Should we prevent seemingly duplicate chargebacks from being created?
•	Deferring 'is found by ProcessorRecordStrategies' shared example — adding it caused many existing tests to fail.
 13. KPIs and Success Metrics
A comprehensive KPI framework was defined for the Fiserv integration. The goals were: (1) create an analytical basis for informed product and technical decisions, and (2) surface appropriate metrics to merchants for efficient dispute management and transparency.
#	KPI	Parameter	Description	Target	Merchant Facing?
1	Chargeback Count (CC)	Count per type (retrieval, chargeback, pre-arb, arbitration, etc.) and Count per reason code (fraud, unauthorized, credit not processed, duplicate, etc.)	Total number of disputes for a given period broken down by type and reason	—	YES
2	Chargeback Ratio (CBR)	—	Chargeback count compared to total transaction count for the same period	—	YES
3	Conversion Rate (CR)	retrieval→chargeback, chargeback→pre-arb, pre-arb→arbitration	Conversion from one lifecycle stage to the next	—	NO
4	Response Rate (RR)	Per type (retrieval, chargeback, pre-arb)	Responded disputes as % of Chargeback Count for that type	—	NO
5	Expiration Rate (ER)	Per type (retrieval, chargeback, pre-arb)	Expired disputes as % of Chargeback Count for that type	—	NO
6	Chargeback Disbursement Rate (CBDR)	—	Successfully disbursed financial events vs. total financial events	100%	NO
7	Ingestion Rate (IR)	Per source	New processor records vs. Chargeback Count	100%	NO
8	Representment Rate	Per endpoint	Successfully submitted representments vs. total disputed disputes	100%	NO
9	SLA Success Rate	Per type	Count of broken SLAs	100% (0 broken)	NO

 14. End-to-End Use Cases and Testing
14.1 Phase 1B Testing Scenarios
The team defined five categories of E2E testing scenarios for Phase 1B:
14.1.1 Dispute Ingestion (Disputes ↔ Fiserv/Snowflake)
•	Trigger table validation: Is the trigger table confirmed before kicking off ingestion?
•	Expected: Trigger table status validated prior to ingest. When not ready, proper alerts raised.
•	S3 pull: BT successfully pulls all necessary chargeback records for the day.
•	Expected: If pull fails, proper alerts are raised.
14.1.2 Dispute Strategies (Disputes)
•	Net-new disputes are created upon ingestion.
•	Existing disputes are updated to: Open (if applicable), Won, or Lost.
•	Records that cannot be matched to a strategy result in PREs.
•	Question documented: How do we anticipate PREs being handled? How do we proactively reduce them?
14.1.3 Merchant Notifications (Disputes ↔ Sendgrid)
•	Email and webhooks sent for new disputes and status updates — at minimum parity with existing Wells behavior.
•	When Emails or Webhooks fail to send, proper alerts are raised.
14.1.4 Financial Events (Disputes ↔ Funding)
•	Funding initiates credit or debit as appropriate (debit on CB open, credit on won).
•	If a partial credit is received: behavior to be defined.
•	BT fee successfully charged.
•	Phase TBD: Handshake/proactive reconciliation with Funding for reporting purposes.
14.1.5 Reporting (Disputes ↔ Reporting)
•	Dispute data populated and accurate in CP-owned reports: Dispute Report (DLR) and DFIR.
•	Dispute data populated in Reporting-owned reports: DFR, DDR, SFTP reports, custom reports.
•	Question: What additional controls can we implement beyond the Funding handshake to ensure reporting accuracy?
14.2 Shadow Testing Strategy
Before the integration went live for any merchant, the team implemented a shadow testing approach: Fiserv::Shadow strategies were run against real Fiserv records to create ShadowDisputes without surfacing them to merchants. This allowed the team to:
•	Use progression queries to identify common sequences of strategies applied to records
•	Identify common reasons for PREs before go-live and address strategy gaps proactively
•	Validate that the integration handled the full range of Coinbase's dispute lifecycle patterns
•	Build confidence in the strategy engine before cutting over production traffic
 15. Open Questions and Decisions Log
15.1 Product/Business Questions
The following questions were formally documented across the EPP Phase documents as open at various points in time. They represent the real-time uncertainty the team was navigating:
•	Would we be able to link dispute records with corresponding money movement and pass-through fees based on processor data?
•	What are the implications of NOT issuing a conditional debit for open chargebacks and instead debiting merchants on chargeback lost? (Impact to Funding? Approvals needed from Treasury?)
•	Can the issuer's letter be shared with the merchant? Are there security implications?
•	What are the evidence requirements for Enterprise in-Store disputes?
•	What is the impact of Phase 4 on branded disputes (Pay with Venmo, Pay with PayPal)? And Amex Direct?
•	Should we have a Closed status for retrievals? (To be confirmed when specs arrived.)
•	What dispute tools are accessible in Fiserv's back-office system? (Resolved: DisputeManager User Guide was obtained.)
15.2 Engineering Design Questions (from RFC)
•	Should retrieval and chargeback records be modeled separately? (Answer: Yes, they are separate entities in Snowflake.)
•	Should Fiserv::Client query both Snowflake tables in one run or separate runs?
•	Should we have a separate worker for receiving, persisting, and uploading processor files to S3?
•	Can we confidently mark processor files as completed if we don't know the outcome of handling all records?
•	Do we want every runner to use the TransactionLookupEventService directly?
•	How do we want to handle partially refunded disputes? (Referenced Slack thread discussion.)
•	Do we want to modify the shape of ArbiterDisputeMessage to avoid sending unneeded info to Gateway?
•	What are the implications for Chargeback Protection? (Noted positive: can avoid creating financial events for protected disputes since protection info would be available earlier.)
•	What are the implications if we deprecate the Pending status for Reporting? (To be discussed with Reporting team.)
•	Do we want to remove Pending status entirely or preserve it for historical records?
•	What timeframe can we transition disputes to Lost if no terminal record arrives from Fiserv?
•	Can we test in QA environment?
•	How long can we use the Datalake before it is deprecated and we must migrate to EDL/BigQuery?
15.3 Fiserv-Specific Questions (from Question Log)
•	How are chargeback updates represented in the file? (Status changes, amount changes, reason code changes?)
•	How can chargebacks be linked to their corresponding financial events and fees?
•	What is the plan for supporting MasterCard Ethoca alerts? (Resolved: August 2023 weekend.)
•	Are these calendar or business days for SLA? (Resolved: M-F, ~6PM PT.)
•	Network Due Dates — will they be in the data file? (Resolved: No. BT merchant due date only. Network due dates require separate product team request.)
 16. Blockers, Challenges, and Lessons Learned
16.1 Preemptive Transaction Lookup — Persistent Blocker
One of the most persistent blockers throughout the EPP program was the incomplete state of Preemptive Transaction Lookup. This architectural improvement was identified as Sequencing Step 1 in the engineering plan but was marked BLOCKED as late as October 2023. The team documented two known gaps that needed resolution before cutover: the missing auto-acceptance logic and the broken notification flow for escalated disputes. The workaround was to potentially proceed without it, accepting the operational complexity of the pending Dispute state during the integration period.
16.2 Snowflake Architecture Pivot
The original design called for Arbiter to connect directly to Fiserv's Snowflake instance using application credentials (to be created by EM David Miller). This was ultimately cancelled. Instead, the architecture shifted to a Snowflake task that runs on Fiserv's side and copies data to S3 for Arbiter to consume. This pivot likely simplified operational security (no direct Snowflake credentials in Arbiter's production config) but required additional work to define and deploy the Snowflake task infrastructure in the snowflake-terraform repo.
16.3 Weekend Adjustment Data Edge Case
After the integration went live, an operational issue was discovered involving dispute records received on weekends. Specifically, when Fiserv processed status updates after their adjustment cutoff on Fridays, those records would arrive in Snowflake with an updated upd_dt but stale or null adjustment data (adj_dt and adj_amt). This caused PREs in Arbiter because the system expected adjustment data to be present for Open chargebacks and Reversal records.
The root cause was a Fiserv system behavior, not a bug in BT code. Fiserv's adjustment processing cannot backfill until the following Monday. Three problematic patterns were identified:
25.	Chargeback/Open records with adj_dt = null and adj_amt = null (when there should be values)
26.	Reversal/Reversed records with adj_dt < upd_dt and adj_amt < 0 (stale, pre-reversal data)
27.	Unknown other combinations that might emerge
16.4 Dual-Pipeline Complexity
Operating two simultaneous dispute pipelines (Wells and Fiserv) during the transition period created significant complexity. For merchants being migrated, Wells disputes from before the cutover date continued to arrive while Fiserv disputes for the same merchant also started flowing. The strategy engine needed to correctly differentiate between these, and the cutover strategies needed to handle 'mid-life' disputes — cases that opened on Wells but received status updates on Fiserv. Sequence diagrams were called out as a needed deliverable to map all these scenarios.
16.5 Partial Credits / Partial Chargebacks
A nuanced financial edge case was discovered via Slack: a credit (representing a partial refund) was received from Wells/Fiserv, but the case should NOT have been closed based on that credit alone. The question was whether Snowflake/Arbiter could reliably detect that a partial credit did not indicate a terminal status. The cb_partialAmountFlag field in the Fiserv data was identified as potentially useful here, but its presence in the original dispute record (vs. only on updates) was an open question.
16.6 Reporting Dependency Gap
Throughout the EPP program, a persistent gap existed between what the Disputes team could deliver technically and what Reporting could deliver on its own timeline. DFR (the long-term DFR for merchant reconciliation) and DDR (the long-term dispute detail report) had no firm ETAs for Control Panel extension. This meant that legacy reports (DFIR, DLR) would need to be maintained longer than originally hoped, delaying the clean deprecation planned for Phase 4+.
 17. PRE Playbook — Operational Incident Handling
A ProcessorRecordException (PRE) is raised when Arbiter receives a dispute record from Fiserv that it cannot handle — either because data is missing/invalid, or because no matching strategy exists for the record's state. The Fiserv PRE Playbook was written by Carla Garcia Dimanche to document common PRE scenarios and the remediation steps for on-call engineers.
17.1 Missing Adjustment Data PRE
17.1.1 Background
The most common PRE type after go-live was caused by missing adjustment data on weekend records. On date D, the Snowflake task queries for records with upd_dt = D-1. Normally, when upd_dt is updated, all related values (adj_dt, adj_amt) are also updated. However, for status updates made after Fiserv's Friday adjustment cutoff, the status update goes through but adjustment data cannot be filled in until the following Monday.
17.1.2 Identification Query
To identify PREs caused by missing adjustment data, run the following against Arbiter's database:
SELECT pre.id, fc.status_date, fc.ids_case_number, fc.arn
FROM fiserv_chargebacks fc
JOIN processor_record_exceptions pre
  ON pre.processor_record_id = fc.id
  AND pre.processor_record_type = 'Fiserv::Chargeback'
WHERE (
  (fc.dispute_type = 'Chargeback' AND fc.chargeback_status = 'Open'
   AND fc.adjustment_date IS NULL AND fc.adjustment_amount IS NULL)
  OR
  (fc.dispute_type = 'Reversal' AND fc.chargeback_status = 'Reversed'
   AND fc.adjustment_date < fc.status_date AND fc.adjustment_amount < 0)
)
AND pre.resolved_at IS NULL AND pre.deleted_at IS NULL
ORDER BY fc.status_date;
17.1.3 Remediation Steps (9-Step Process)
28.	Run the identification query above. Save the PRE IDs, status dates, IDS case numbers, and ARNs.
29.	Manually run the chargebacks query from snowflake-terraform repo against Fiserv's Snowflake instance with WHERE upd_dt = <status_date> AND acqr_ref_no IN (<list of ARNs>).
30.	Download results as CSV named <status_date>_backfilled_records.csv, then gzip it.
31.	Upload gzipped file to S3: bt-production-arbiter-processor-files/fiserv/chargeback/<status_date>/
32.	Enter a Rails console from a support pod in a production cpair.
33.	Execute: Fiserv::FileProcessor.process("fiserv/chargeback/<status_date>/<status_date>_backfilled_records.csv.gz")
34.	Verify processing was successful: query Dispute.allow_unscoped_find.where(case_number: [...]) and check statuses match expected open/won counts.
35.	Verify all open disputes are still within the reply-by window. If any reply-by dates have passed, provide list to Product for merchant reimbursement review.
36.	Mark PREs as resolved: ProcessorRecordException.allow_unscoped_find.where(id: [...]).map(&:resolve)
17.2 PRE Prevention and Long-Term Fix
The playbook noted that a proper automated solution was being designed (referenced as a Slack discussion from 9/20/2023 in #epp-disputes-bk). Until that fix was implemented, the above manual process needed to be run every Monday for weekend records that PREd due to missing adjustment data.
 19.2 Arbiter Key Classes and Components (Fiserv Integration)
Component	Type	Description
Fiserv::Client	Service	Queries Fiserv Snowflake instance (or reads from S3 in final design)
Fiserv::ProcessorRecordIngestRunner	Runner	Orchestrates daily ingestion of Fiserv records
Fiserv::FileProcessor	Service	Processes a gzipped CSV file of Fiserv records from S3
Fiserv::Chargeback	Model	ProcessorRecord model for chargeback records (table: fiserv_chargebacks)
Fiserv::ProcessorRecordBuilder	Builder	Constructs Fiserv::ProcessorRecord from raw Snowflake data
Fiserv::CreateChargebackStrategy	Strategy	Creates a new Dispute from an Open chargeback record
Fiserv::WinChargebackStrategy	Strategy	Transitions existing Dispute to Won from Reversal/Reversed record
Fiserv::LoseDisputeStrategy	Strategy	Transitions existing Dispute to Lost
Fiserv::UpdateDisputeStrategy	Strategy	Updates existing Dispute attributes without terminal state change
Fiserv::CreateRetrievalStrategy	Strategy	Creates a new Dispute from an Open retrieval record
Fiserv::Shadow::CreateChargebackStrategy	Shadow Strategy	Shadow version for testing pre-go-live
Fiserv::EvidenceSubmissionService	Service	Submits merchant evidence to Fiserv via SFTP/eResponse
Fiserv::DisputeAcceptanceService	Service	Notifies Fiserv when merchant accepts a dispute
HandleProcessorRecordJob	Job	Async job that passes a persisted ProcessorRecord to HandleProcessorRecordService
ProcessorRecordException (PRE)	Model	Persisted exception for records that cannot be processed
TransactionLookupEvent	Model	Tracks Gateway transaction lookup lifecycle; stores dispute attributes for preemptive lookup flow
DisputeBuilder	Builder	Creates/updates Dispute objects from processed strategy outputs
DisputeFinder	Service	Locates existing Disputes for update/terminal strategies
FundingDisbursementsConsumer	Consumer	Receives Funding acknowledgements of DisputeFinancialEvents

19.3 Snowflake Schema Key Fields Reference
The Fiserv Snowflake table CHARGEBACK_PPFISERV_V1 (Phase 1B/2) / CHARGEBACK_PPDEBIT_V1 (Phase 4/Goldman) contains the following key fields (from the DFM query and field mapping exercise):
Snowflake Column	Description
siteid	Location ID (maps to processor_merchant_id)
upd_dt / status_date	Most recent status update date — KEY FIELD for daily ingestion filter
cbk_status / m20.fild_valu_tx	Chargeback Status (Open, Closed, Reversed)
orig_dsput_amt	Original Chargeback Amount (maps to amount_disputed)
adj_amt	Adjustment Amount — positive=credit, negative=debit (maps to financial_movement_amount)
adj_dt	Adjustment Date (maps to financial_movement_date)
dspn_resp_due_dt	Response Due Date (maps to processor_reply_by_date)
acqr_ref_no	Acquirer Reference Number / ARN (maps to processor_transaction_identifier AND reference_number)
alt_dsput_id	IDS Case Number (maps to case_number)
dsput_rsn_cd	Dispute Reason Code (maps to reason_code)
m4.fild_valu_tx	Dispute Reason Description (maps to reason_description)
dsput_rcvd_dt	Received Date (maps to received_date)
invoice_no	Invoice Number — .lower maps to gateway_transaction_public_id
pre_dsput_flag	Pre-Dispute Flag — used for RDR detection
dspn_curr_cd	Chargeback Currency Code (maps to financial_movement_currency)
wrk_typ_cd	Chargeback Work Type (various lifecycle stages)
chargeback_cycle	Chargeback Cycle Code
THE RFC


Document compiled from PayPal Confluence space DD — Elevate Payment Partnerships (EPP)  |  Braintree Disputes / Arbiter Platform  |  2023–2024

Feature name: Fiserv disputes integration
Type: Feature
Related components: Arbiter, Gateway, Funding, Reporting, Airflow, Datalake
Jira epic: DTBTCD-1169
PRD: Elevate Payment Partnerships Phase 4 - Disputes
Table of contents:
•	Summary
o	Fiserv disputes integration
•	Ingest
o	Diagram
o	Jira tickets
o	End state
o	Unresolved questions
	Design
	Error handling
	Snowflake
	CLX
•	Splitting processor record ingest and handling
o	Diagram
o	Jira tickets
o	Unresolved questions
•	Preemptive transaction lookup
o	Jira tickets
o	End state
o	Unresolved questions
	Design
	External dependencies
	Deprecation
•	Handling
o	Diagram
	Open record for a new case | Open record for an escalated dispute
	Win or loss record for an existing dispute | Update record for an existing dispute
o	Jira tickets
o	End state
o	Unresolved questions
	Design
	Error handling
	Visa RDR
•	Representment
o	Diagram
o	Jira tickets
o	Unresolved questions
	Representment submission
	Automated status transitions
	Error handling
•	Reporting
o	Jira tickets
o	Unresolved questions
	Reports
	Dashboards
•	Monitoring
o	Jira tickets
o	Unresolved questions
•	Testing
o	Unresolved questions
•	Funding handshake
o	Jira tickets
o	Unresolved questions
•	Deprecating Wells
o	Jira tickets
o	Unresolved questions
o	Approaches
 
 
Summary
Elevate Payment Partnerships (EPP; also known as Control Our Destiny or COD) is an initiative by PayPal to reduce its dependency on third-party banks and processors. As far as Braintree is concerned, this involves shifting our 1,000 largest merchants off of the Wells pipeline and onto a new pipeline consisting of Fiserv as the processor and Goldman Sachs as the acquiring bank. All other merchants would be migrated to the PayPal Commerce Platform (PPCP).
With this new pipeline, BT Disputes will be receiving information about disputes directly from Fiserv. We will also be submitting dispute representments directly to Fiserv. This requires us to build a new end-to-end processor integration with Fiserv.
Fiserv disputes integration
As with our other processor integrations, design can be broken down into three distinct components: ingesting processor records, handling processor records, and representing disputes.
However, this design also assumes that we make a few improvements to Arbiter. Namely, it would be ideal to split up the ingest and handling of processor records into separate jobs, and to cut over to preemptive Gateway transaction lookup. While these changes are not required for a functional integration with any processor, they can improve performance and clarity.
Lastly, a requirement for delivering EPP Phase 4 is to implement a handshake with Funding that can be used to inform Reporting that ingest and handling is complete for the day.
 
 
Ingest
While the source of processor records is not confirmed, the current plan is to connect to and query Fiserv's Snowflake instance. The alternative is receiving a CLX file, likely via SFTP.
Below, "ProcessorRecord" is used as a placeholder for the actual name of Fiserv records (e.g., "ChargebackActivity" for Moneris or "DisputeRecord" for PwV).
A Fiserv::ProcessorRecordIngestRunner should be kicked off by a cron job daily at a given time. This runner will orchestrate retrieving and persisting the day's processor records.
The runner will call a Fiserv::Client that is responsible for connecting to and querying records from Snowflake. The SLA for records to be available in Snowflake is TBD time, TBD days per week.
The runner will iterate through the records – for each one, building a Fiserv::ProcessorRecord object and persisting it to a fiserv_processor_record table in the Arbiter database. The Fiserv::ProcessorRecord model should have validations in accordance with the data that we expect to see on each record. We should raise a ProcessorRecordException (PRE) for each record that has missing or unexpected data.
In the (seemingly likely) event that retrieval records and chargeback records are separate entities living in separate Snowflake tables, we will need a separate model and DB table for both.
Depending on whether Gateway transaction lookup is required for the processor record, the runner will either call the TransactionLookupEventService to create a TransactionLookupEvent and produce the transaction lookup request to the Gateway, or queue a HandleProcessorRecordJob to handle the record. See "Splitting processor record ingest and handling" for more details.
There should also be Datadog metrics that provide insight into whether records are available at the expected time, how long ingest takes, etc.
Diagram
View in Miro
 
Jira tickets
•	1 Sprint (Work Stream 1)
o	SPIKE: Connect to and query Fiserv Snowflake instance (AC: POC integration test) 
•	1 Sprint (Work Stream 2)
o	Create Fiserv::TransactionDetails 
o	Create Fiserv::TransactionBuilder
o	Create Fiserv::TransactionFinder 
•	1 Sprint (Work Stream 2)
o	Create Fiserv::ProcessorRecord model(s)
	MVP: Only Chargebacks 
	Need separate ones for retrieval and chargeback records
o	Create Fiserv::ProcessorRecordBuilder(s)
	MVP: Only Chargebacks
	Need separate ones for retrieval and chargeback records
•	1 Sprint  (Work Stream 1)
o	Create Fiserv::Client
•	1 Sprint (Work Stream 3)
o	Create Fiserv::ProcessorRecordIngestRunner
o	Create Fiserv ingest cron job and rake task
3 sprints + 2 buffer sprints = 5 sprints
End state
Records are successfully ingested and persisted to the Arbiter DB. PREs are persisted and surfaced for invalid records. A Gateway transaction lookup request is sent out, or a HandleProcessorRecordJob is queued, for each record.
Unresolved questions
Design
•	Are retrieval and chargeback records separate? If so:
o	Will we need separate retrieval and chargeback processor record models and builders?
o	Should the Fiserv::Client query both Snowflake tables in one run, or should we have separate runs for retrieval and chargeback records?
Error handling
•	How do we want to handle visibility of:
o	Snowflake connectivity issues?
o	Records not being available?
o	PREs due to model validation failures?
Snowflake
•	When can we get specs for and/or access to the Fiserv Snowflake instance?
•	How do we connect to Snowflake?
Braintree has been provisioned a Snowflake account. The account identifier is "braintree". I (Carla) have a username and password. Fiserv is still working on a test share of data. 
Here is documentation for connecting to Snowflake via Snowsight or SnowSQL: Logging into Snowflake, and via Ruby: Ruby Connectivity Options for Snowflake.
•	When will the records in Snowflake be available each day?
o	Does data become available throughout the day or is it a singular data dump?
o	How can we be confident that no records are missing?
•	Are the records in Snowflake snapshots of disputes, or is there a record per dispute update?
There is a record per dispute update. Records are immutable and available for multiple years. This gives us an opportunity to look up records for old Wells cases in Snowflake and see how they compare to the CashMan/DFM records we received.
•	How can we model the day's records as a batch (e.g., a processor file)? Do we need to?
CLX
•	When can we get specs for the CLX file and/or a sample file?
See Metadata.
•	How do we retrieve the CLX file?
•	When will the CLX file be available each day?
 
 
Splitting processor record ingest and handling
The goal of this improvement is to have a ingest job that is responsible for retrieving records (e.g., for Fiserv, querying Snowflake; for Moneris, downloading chargeback activity files), iterating through those records, and creating and persisting processor record objects.
Then, for each record, we either kick off Gateway transaction lookup or queue a separate HandleProcessorRecordJob. At that point, ingest of the record is complete.
The Gateway transaction lookup response would be processed via the ArbiterDisputeMessageService, which would end by queueing a HandleProcessorRecordJob.
The HandleProcessorRecordJob would pass the record to the HandleProcessorRecordService for handling.
As such, ingest, transaction lookup, and handling are separated across workers instead of occurring inline.
Diagram
Ingest 2.0
Jira tickets
•	Create HandleProcessorRecordJob
•	Update existing runners to queue HandleProcessorRecordJobs
Unresolved questions
•	Do we want to implement this pattern for other processor integrations?
o	For integrations with file-based ingest, should we have an additional worker that is responsible for receiving, persisting, and uploading the file to S3? (See Arbiter Processor File Ingest v2 for David Miller's design.)
	Can we confidently mark processor files as completed if we don't know the outcome of handling the records?
 
 
Preemptive transaction lookup
Currently, Arbiter handles an open processor record by creating a Dispute in a pending state. Pending Disputes are internal-only and not visible to merchants. Arbiter then kicks off Gateway transaction lookup to get the transaction information for the Dispute. Once the Gateway returns this information, the pending Dispute is transitioned to an open state and made visible to merchants.
With preemptive transaction lookup, Arbiter instead kicks off Gateway transaction lookup before handling the open processor record. When the Gateway returns the transaction information, Arbiter creates a Dispute in an open state. This reduces confusion by doing away with the pending status. When a Dispute is created, it has all the information needed to be visible to merchants.
This Slack thread contains a lot of helpful context: Preemptive transaction lookup Slack thread. Furthermore, this PR contains additional context and was the most recent effort to address gaps in the flow: Fix gaps in pre-emptive transaction lookup #2896.
There are still a few issues with the existing preemptive transaction lookup implementation that need to be resolved before a successful cutover can occur.
1.	Auto acceptance evaluation logic is currently not in place for the preemptive transaction lookup flow. This needs to be added, likely in the DisputeBuilder – it can occur here because preemptive transaction lookup Disputes are created in an open state, and therefore can immediately transition to auto accepted.
2.	Open processor records for escalated cases (i.e., an open chargeback-with-retrieval record or an open pre-arbitration record) will not undergo Gateway transaction lookup, because transaction information will already have been retrieved for the case during the earlier lifecycle stage. This means that open notifications will not be created for the resulting Disputes, because notification creation is currently skipped in the DisputeBuilder for preemptive transaction lookup Disputes. The reason that notification creation is currently skipped is because notifications cannot be created until the Dispute is updated with certain attributes that are provided in the transaction lookup response. We need to refactor our code such that, by the time a processor record is passed to the DisputeBuilder, a Dispute and its notifications can be created with all the necessary information. One solution is to persist dispute attributes returned from the Gateway on the TransactionLookupEvent, so that they can be accessed in the DisputeBuilder.
 
Diagram
View in Miro
 
Jira tickets
•	1 Sprint (Work Stream 1)
o	Persist dispute attributes on TransactionLookupEvent/GatewayTransaction in ArbiterDisputeMessageService
	Requires schema change
o	DisputeBuilder updates
	Add dispute attributes from TransactionLookupEvent to create_attributes
	Add notification creation logic for open disputes
	Add auto acceptance logic
o	Move PayPal-specific dispute updates and notification logic to Paypal::DisputeBuilder
•	1 Sprint (Work stream ?) Dependent on Dispute Creation/Updates (Maybe not MVP) 
o	Audit/eliminate redundant calls to Gateway::DisputeProducer in HandleProcessorRecordService
o	Audit/eliminate redundant produce_to_kafka calls
	AC: Add logging which could serve as reason to remove e.g dispute state is unchanged. Add documentation to wiki on use cases of produce_to_kafka
•	Not related to EPP
o	Update existing runners to use TransactionLookupEvent service
o	Remove preemptive transaction lookup early exit logic from HandleProcessorRecordService
o	Rollout
	Enable preemptive transaction lookup feature switch for x merchants
	Remove preemptive transaction lookup feature switch
	Deprecate old transaction lookup code paths
	Deprecate pending status
2 Sprints (only EPP)
 
End state
A GatewayTransaction is created and persisted with all relevant attributes and associations (customers, payment methods, subscriptions, refund transactions, etc.) provided in the Gateway transaction lookup response. The processor record's TransactionLookupEvent is updated with all the attributes needed to later create a Dispute. The TransactionLookupEvent is marked as complete. A HandleProcessorRecordJob is queued.
Unresolved questions
Design
•	Do we want every runner to use the TransactionLookupEventService directly?
•	Do we want to modify the shape of an ArbiterDisputeMessage so we are not sending unneeded info to the Gateway?
•	How do we want to roll out preemptive transaction lookup?
In the past, we started with a few merchants for each processor who got at least a few disputes every day.
External dependencies
•	Are there any ramifications for Chargeback Protection?
We should check with Rakesh and Hari. One known positive impact is that we will be able to avoid creating financial events for chargeback protected disputes; we currently do this because the protection information is not available until Gateway transaction lookup completes, so those financial events have to be filtered out from reports.
•	What are the implications for other teams (e.g., Reporting) if we deprecate the pending status?
Deprecation
•	Do we want to remove the pending status entirely, or preserve it for historical records?
o	We could delete disputes that are pending and older than x amount of time?
o	We could delete dispute history events that are pending and move their associations to the open history event instead?
 
 
Handling
There would (ideally) be four possible flows for handling a record:
1.	Open record for a new case (i.e., an open retrieval record or an open chargeback-with-no-retrieval record)
o	Ingest process triggers Gateway transaction lookup
o	When transaction lookup completes, ArbiterDisputeMessageService queues a HandleProcessorRecordJob
o	An open Dispute is created
o	The Dispute is evaluated for auto acceptance during creation
o	Notifications (open email and open webhook, or auto accepted webhook) are created appropriately
o	Any financial events are sent to Funding
2.	Open record for an escalated dispute (i.e., an open chargeback-with-retrieval record or a pre-arbitration record)
o	Transaction lookup is not needed; ingest process queues a HandleProcessorRecordJob
o	Otherwise, same as above.
3.	Win or loss record for an existing dispute
o	Transaction lookup is not needed; ingest process queues a HandleProcessorRecordJob
o	The dispute is transitioned to won or lost
o	A won or lost webhook is created
o	Any financial events are sent to Funding
4.	Update record for an existing dispute
o	Same as above, except dispute information is simply updated; the dispute is not transitioned to a terminal state.
We will likely need at least the following strategies: CreateRetrievalStrategy, CreateChargebackStrategy, CreatePreArbitrationStrategy, WinDisputeStrategy, LoseDisputeStrategy and UpdateDisputeStrategy. We should raise a PRE for each record for which no strategies or multiple strategies apply.
There should also be Datadog metrics that provide insight into how long handling takes, etc.
Since Arbiter will be the initial point of ingest, we need to send DisputeFinancialEvents to Funding so that they can move money. This means that logic can be introduced in Funding to waive chargeback fees for pre-disputes on a dispute-by-dispute basis, in contrast to the current approach of blanket-waiving fees for all Visa chargebacks on allowlisted merchant accounts.
We should also continue to receive acknowledgement from Funding that they have received each DisputeFinancialEvent via the FundingDisbursementsConsumer.
Diagram
Open record for a new case | Open record for an escalated dispute
View in Miro
 
 
Win or loss record for an existing dispute | Update record for an existing dispute
View in Miro
 
Jira tickets
•	Create Fiserv::CreateRetrievalStrategy
•	2 Sprint (Work Stream 3) – Dependent on fiserv model, pre-emptive transaction lookup
o	Production 
	Create Fiserv::CreateChargebackStrategy
	Create Fiserv::WinDisputeStrategy
	Create Fiserv::LoseDisputeStrategy
	Create Fiserv::UpdateDisputeStrategy
•	What can change? reason, dispute_amount, etc?
	Create Fiserv::NoopStrategy (Don't call this noop please)
o	Shadow
	Create Fiserv::Shadow::CreateChargebackStrategy
	Create Fiserv::Shadow::WinDisputeStrategy
•	
o	
	Create Fiserv::Shadow::LoseDisputeStrategy
	Create Fiserv::Shadow::UpdateDisputeStrategy
•	What can change? reason, dispute_amount, etc?
	Create Fiserv::Shadow::NoopStrategy (Don't call this noop please)
o	Merchant Enablement
	Add logic to conditionally use shadow vs production strategies based on merchant feature toggle
•	Create Fiserv::CreatePreArbitrationStrategy
2 Sprints
End state
Disputes are successfully created, auto accepted, updated, won, or lost based on the content of the processor records received from Fiserv. PREs are persisted and surfaced for records that cannot be handled. Merchants are notified of dispute creation and updates. Financial events are produced to Funding via Kafka and acknowledged by Funding via the FundingDisbursementsConsumer. Chargeback fees are waived for pre-disputes on a dispute-by-dispute basis.
Unresolved questions
Design
•	What does the sequence of records look like for dispute status updates and lifecycle escalations?
•	What types of disputes will we need to support beyond retrievals, chargebacks, and pre-arbitrations?
Eventually, we would like to support arbitrations, pre-compliances, and compliances. However, these would be out of scope for the EPP Phase 4 MVP.
•	Per this Slack thread, how do we handle the edge case of partially refunded disputes?
•	Do we need to communicate with Pricing?
As of now, no – Pricing would receive any information they need from Funding.
Error handling
•	How do we want to handle visibility of:
o	PREs due to missing or overlapping strategies?
o	Financial events not acknowledged by Funding after x amount of time?
o	Notification and/or webhook failures?
Visa RDR
•	What logic is needed on the Funding (or Pricing) side to waive Visa RDR fees?
Funding and Pricing confirmed that it would be possible to implement logic to waive chargeback fees for individual disputes based on the pre_dispute_program field on ArbiterDisputeMessages. This logic may need to live in both Funding and Pricing at some point, depending on when chargeback fee calculation logic is moved out of Funding and into Pricing.
•	Who is responsible for implementing pre-dispute fee-waiving logic?
Funding and Pricing
•	Can we deprecate the Visa RDR allowlist logic once we stop receiving Wells records?
Yes, but we'll revisit this when that time comes.
 
 
Representment
When merchants submit evidence for a Dispute, we need to ensure that evidence is submitted to Fiserv in a timely fashion. This will involve creating a new Fiserv::EvidenceSubmissionService. We should also notify Fiserv when a merchant has decided to accept a Dispute, which will involve creating a new Fiserv::DisputeAcceptanceService.
These three documents in the Disputes Knowledge repo are particularly useful for a basic understanding of representment:
•	Evidence Submission Flow
•	Acceptance Flow
•	Representment: Overall Architecture – this is for Wells, and slightly outdated
Based on correspondence with Fiserv, it seems likely that we will submit representments via SFTP. Presumably, we would also receive acknowledgement files via SFTP. If so, we can leverage the existing FirstData::EvidenceSubmissionService, FirstData::DisputeAcceptanceService, BatchSubmissionRunner, and AcknowledgementRunner.
For Braintree, we will leverage the existing mailbox that the current Braintree file is submitted through, and we will be standing up a new file to be sent through that mailbox using the existing transmission job name for BrainTree, which is RCDMBPSS. That eResponse job is built out within the mailbox NAGW-XBMDK006. We will just assign a new eResponse Group ID, and the file name will then be RCDMBPSS.XXXXXXX.D*.T*.zip. The X’s will be replaced once we have the eResponse Group ID value we will be using.
If merchants do not act on a Dispute by the merchant reply-by date, the Dispute will be picked up by the DisputesReadyToExpireQuery and transitioned to an expired state by the ExpiredRunner. If a Dispute has not reached a terminal state after a specified amount of time, it should be picked up by the DisputesReadyToLoseQuery and transitioned to a lost state by the LostRunner.
We currently have logic in the ExpiredRunner to auto-submit Wells disputes that have an amount_disputed over 30 USD and are associated with a transaction that was refunded via Braintree. If we want to maintain parity here, we should ensure that Fiserv disputes are covered by this logic.
Diagram
Arbiter Architecture - Representment
Jira tickets
•	1 Sprint (Work Stream 3)
o	Create Fiserv::EvidenceSubmissionService
	Update logic in models/representment/batch.rb (def zip_filename)
	Add acquirer to Representment::BatchCommon and acquierer sftp_client mapping (L26
o	Support Fiserv::DisputeAcceptanceService
	Add Dispute::AcceptanceMethod::FIRST_DATA_VIA_FDR as acceptance_method in the Fiserve model
o	Ensure Fiserv disputes are covered by DisputesReadyToExpireQuery
	Might mean adding specs to support new source.
	Changes may not be needed in implementation, but please review.
o	Ensure Fiserv disputes are covered by DisputesReadyToLoseQuery
	This may not be needed. See Automated Status Transitions below. According to fiserv, all disputes have terminal status so ingest runner should be picking up lost disputes. It would be wise to monitor this in event disputes never transition to lost via snowflake.
o	Add auto-submit logic for qualifying Fiserv disputes to ExpiredRunner
o	Audit/update evidence recommendations based on Fiserv guidelines and reason codes
	WIP Mapping Exercise - FiserV
Unresolved questions
Representment submission
•	How much buffer time do we want to build into the merchant reply-by date?
•	Do we need to make any changes to our current evidence compilation, submission, and acknowledgement architecture?
No, other than using a new eResponse file name, adding Fiserv to the EvidenceSubmissionServiceFactory and DisputeAcceptanceFactory, etc.
•	If leveraging the current Wells architecture, do we want to refactor the (IMO confusing) design of DisputeRepresentments, DisputeCases, and Batches?
Automated status transitions
•	Can we expire Fiserv disputes once the merchant reply-by date has passed?
•	Will we always receive a terminal record (win or loss) from Fiserv?
o	If not, after what timeframe can we transition Disputes to a terminal state?
Error handling
•	How do we want to handle visibility of:
o	Evidence compilation failures?
o	Evidence submission failures?
o	Dispute acceptance failures?
o	Representments not acknowledged by Fiserv after x amount of time?
 
 
Reporting
Part of the requirement for EPP Phase 4 is that Reporting knows when dispute information is ready. See "Funding handshake" for more details.
Aside from that, there is a desire to better surface KPIs and success metrics to merchants, potentially via a dashboard on the Control Panel. Merchants should be able to see a count of disputes by type, a count of disputes by reason code, and their chargeback ratio. See the "KPI's and Success Metrics" section of the PRD for more.
Jira tickets
•	Add KPIs to Control Panel
•	Deprecate Disputes Report and DFIR
Unresolved questions
Reports
•	What reports will we need to support moving forward?
We will continue to support the Disputes Report and DFIR for some time, but the goal is to have a report for LEs delivered over SFTP and owned by Reporting.
•	What timeframe do we have to resolve PREs before it becomes a Reporting issue?
Dashboards
•	Who is responsible for implementing merchant-facing Control Panel dispute dashboards?
 
 
Monitoring
Datadog (with version control of dashboards), Disputes Panel, Splunk
Desired metrics (WIP, not inclusive):
•	How long does ingest take?
•	Are all records available at the expected time?
•	How long does transaction lookup take?
•	How long does handling take?
•	How long does Funding acknowledgement of financial events take?
•	How long does representment take?
•	How long does Fiserv acknowledgement of representments take?
•	Errors across entire flow
o	Ingest runner failures
o	HandleProcessorRecordJob failures
o	PREs
o	EvidenceSubmissionJob / DisputeAcceptanceJob failures
Jira tickets
•	Add Fiserv source to Disputes Panel
•	Fix PRE access in Disputes Panel
•	Build Datadog dashboard with all metrics from the "KPI's and Success Metrics" section of the PRD
Unresolved questions
•	Can we access any Fiserv back office tools to verify the state of disputes in their system?
 
 
Testing
Given that we will begin ingesting and handling Fiserv processor records before we are ready to launch the integration, we could start by creating ShadowDisputes. We could use progression queries to determine common sequences of strategies applied to records, identify common reasons for PREs and address strategy gaps, etc.
If we want to support Sandbox testing of Fiserv disputes, we would need to add a fake nonce to the Gateway.
Unresolved questions
•	Can we test in QA?
 
 
Funding handshake
We plan to create a Datalake view that tells Reporting whether (1) the day's processing file is completed, (2) the number of financial events in Arbiter and Funding match, (3) the amounts of financial events in Arbiter and Funding match, and (4) whether any of the day's records have unresolved PREs.
For additional details, see Handshake Signal.
This 30-minute recorded meeting has a great explanation of how Pricing built their Datalake views: Datalake Views Walkthrough.
Jira tickets
•	INVESTIGATE: Determine with Data Eng whether views need to live in a separate DB
•	INVESTIGATE: Talk to Data Eng about what instance profile we can use to create DB
•	Build DAG in Airflow to generate arbiter_views DB and view itself
o	Needs to support both Spark and Athena contexts
•	Deploy DAG to S3 and run deploy_dags_and_plugins_from_s3 DAG
•	Remove DB creation logic from DAG for subsequent runs
Unresolved questions
•	Do we want to house this view in a separate arbiter_views DB?
•	If using Snowflake, how do we satisfy the "processor file completed" requirement?
•	How long can we use the Datalake before it is deprecated?
Migrating to the EDL (BigQuery) and deprecating the Datalake will likely be a long process. Pricing is only pushing to build their views on top of the EDL right now because those views are exposed to BFIT, who rely on BigQuery. There is also an additional consideration that the Datalake will be getting PII restrictions in the coming months; however, the Data Eng team is still in the information gathering stage here. We can proceed with the Datalake for now, and by the time we need to migrate, there should be more concrete documentation we can follow from Pricing.
 
 
Deprecating Wells
The tentative timeline for EPP Phase 4 is that all volume needs to be off Wells Fargo by September 30, 2024. After that, we will receive 180 days of residual traffic, including disputes.
Presumably, once we have fully cut over to Fiserv and are no longer receiving Wells records, we can deprecate the Wells and DFM integrations.
We should also be able to deprecate the Visa RDR allowlist logic in Funding.
Deleting these integrations should not impact the ability to view old Wells disputes, CashMan records, DFM records, etc.
Jira tickets
•	Delete Wells Visa RDR allowlist and fee waiving logic
Unresolved questions
•	Can merchants still respond to disputes received in the 180-day residual window?
•	What happens to disputes that are not in a terminal state by the end of the residual window?
•	What is the best approach for removing Wells codepaths safely?
Approaches
•	Separate Strategy Sets for Shadow and Production dispute management. Merchant feature flags can be used in processor_record_strategies to determine which set to use. 
o	Pros
	Clarity around strategies being chosen.
	Production and Shadow strategies are entirely independent preventing convoluted strategy criteria and definitions.
	Easier cutover as feature flags aren't incorporated in strategy logic.
o	Cons
	Shadow and Production strategies must be equivalent. If they are not, this can result in unexpected behavior.
o	Questions
	What are different lifecycle scenarios with cutover from CashMan/DFM to Fiserv Snowflake integration?
•	Create Sequence Diagram with different scenarios. Example:
a.	CashMan creates chargeback1 for Coinbase. Fiserv creates shadow_chargeback1.
b.	Fiserve is enabled for EPP.
c.	Fiserv receives update for chargeback1. Need consideration for trailing updates. Would we need cutover strategies to account for middle-of-life disputes? Need KPIs for these cutover strategies e.g they should drop in counts overtime for merchants after merchant is enabled.
 
 

